Add "How Fugu is my browser?" and "How Fugu is the web?" article (#4906)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/how-fugu-is-my-browser-and-how-fugu-is-the-web/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

> title: '"How Fugu is my browser?" and "How Fugu is the web?"'

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of this title, I think it's going to be meaningless to a lot of people. Can you come up with something descriptive?

subhead: >
  To answer these questions, check out a browser testing site and a browser extension, both focused
  on the web's capabilities.
date: 2023-01-16
# updated: 2023-01-16
hero: image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/8FZcBmFowbDKWxpkOytx.jpg
alt: Blowfish swarm swimming in the ocean.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
tags:
  - capabilities
---

> ## How Fugu is my browser?

Reviewer: We're starting with an immediate subhead here. Can we introduce this article (I think your title isn't helping you with the structure.)

> Many developers and executives alike don't realize how capable the modern web has become.

Reviewer: I'd generally prefer not to open by telling people they don't know something. And the next sentence is a bit long and complicated. You can leave out the first sentence, and I'd suggest turning this around to be something like "Project Fugu APIs such as X and Y have brought capabilities to the web, that you might expect only to be possible in a phone app. For example, you can now <perhaps slightly simpler example here>"

Double-clicking an image file so it opens in an associated PWA, making modifications, saving the
changes back to the file, and then copying the image contents over into another app or sharing it to
an email client, is a flow that wasn't possible on the web until recently. But APIs developed in the
context of [Project Fugu](/capabilities/) 🐡 such as [File Handling](/articles/file-handling/),
[File System Access](/articles/file-system-access/),
[Async Clipboard](https://web.dev/async-clipboard/), and [Web Share](https://web.dev/web-share/)
have made this flow possible.

> With this in mind, I have developed a test application with the tongue-in-cheek name
> [How Fugu is my browser?](https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/) that you can take for a spin to see what
> Project Fugu APIs your browser of choice supports. Since not all features are exposed on all
> platforms—for example, the [Contact Picker API](/articles/contact-picker/) is currently only exposed
> on mobile—it's technically impossible to reach a score of 100% if you test on desktop (and vice
> versa), so regard it as more like a playful competition than absolute science. For each tested
> feature, there's a link to the relevant documentation so you can learn more about the feature. Where
> feature detection is possible, there is also a note on whether the feature is supported by your
> browser or not, and finally
> [page load statistics linked to Chrome Status](https://chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity)
> that tell you how popular over time a given feature is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn what is possible, check out the application [How Fugu is my browser?](https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/) and see what Project Fugu APIs your browser of choice supports. Not all features are exposed on all
platforms—for example, the [Contact Picker API](/articles/contact-picker/) is currently only exposed
on mobile—therefore it's technically impossible to reach a score of 100% if you test on desktop (and vice
versa). Therefore, regard this test as a playful competition rather than absolute science. For each tested
feature, there's a link to the relevant documentation so you can learn more about the feature. Where
feature detection is possible, there is also a note on whether the feature is supported by your
browser or not, and finally
[page load statistics linked to Chrome Status](https://chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity)
that tell you how popular over time a given feature is.
```

If your browser supports the Web Share API, you can share how Fugu your browser is by clicking the
**Share** button right next to the Fugu fish and the progress bar. Else, you can download a
screenshot, and then share it manually on your online social network of choice.

<figure>

>   {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/8z3ZhxPAq5NxfXEss1XS.png", alt="Screenshot of the site https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/.", width="800", height="649" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/8z3ZhxPAq5NxfXEss1XS.png", alt="The site at https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/.", width="800", height="649" %}
```

  <figcaption>
    Have you ever wondered: "<a href="https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/">How Fugu is my browser?</a>"
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ## How Fugu is the Web?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How Fugu is the web?
```

> Knowing how Fugu your browser is is only half of the equation. Equally interesting is knowing how
> Fugu the web is. To find an answer to this question, I have developed a browser extension with a
> likewise tongue-in-cheek name, aptly called
> [How Fugu is the web?](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/how-fugu-is-the-web/apcghpabklkjjgpfoplnglnjghonjhdl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The companion browser extension named [How Fugu is the web?](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/how-fugu-is-the-web/apcghpabklkjjgpfoplnglnjghonjhdl) will help you to find out which Fugu APIs are used by the sites you are visiting.
```

> When you install this extension from the Chrome Web Store and browse the web, you will notice that
> the Fugu fish counter on some sites displays a badge with the detected Project Fugu APIs. For
> example, if you browse to [Excalidraw](https://excalidraw.com/), the counter jumps to 9, since
> Excalidraw uses nine detectable Project Fugu APIs. These are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install this extension from the Chrome Web Store and browse the web, then notice how
the Fugu fish counter on some sites displays a badge with the detected Project Fugu APIs. For
example, if you browse to [Excalidraw](https://excalidraw.com/), the counter jumps to 9, since
Excalidraw uses nine detectable Project Fugu APIs. These are:
```

clicking on **Details**. You can also directly check out the relevant source code snippet by
clicking on the source code link in the bullet list.

## Conclusions

After browsing the web with the
[How Fugu is the Web?](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/how-fugu-is-the-web/apcghpabklkjjgpfoplnglnjghonjhdl)
extension installed, it is impressive to see how often the Project Fugu API badge appears. This
ranges from pages with comfort features like being able to paste images into an app like, for
example, in
[GitHub's New Issue page](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/creating-an-issue)
(instead of uploading them as a less comfortable option), to full-blown apps that make use of
several features such as file handling, file system access, and clipboard access, as in
[Excalidraw](https://excalidraw.com/). Where previously a platform-specific app was required, in
some cases now a web application can fill in. An example of such is [Wooting](https://wooting.io/)'s
[Wootility](https://wootility.io/) app for programming gaming keyboards with the
[WebHID API](https://web.dev/hid/).

> Similarly, running [How Fugu is my browser?](https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/) on each new version of
> your browser of choice (or just any other browser or embedded WebView) is very satisfying, since
> with almost every new browser release, the progress bar moves up a little when your browser has
> gained a new capability or two.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, running [How Fugu is my browser?](https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/) on each new version of
your browser of choice (or just any other browser or embedded WebView) is very satisfying. With
with almost every new browser release, the progress bar moves up a little when your browser has
gained a new capability or two.
```

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: 'Discovering the capable web'
subhead: >

>   What advanced web capabilities does your browser support? And what are the web apps that make use
>   of these capabilities? To answer these questions, check out a browser testing site and a browser
>   extension that I have built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  What advanced web capabilities does your browser support? And what are the web apps that make use
  of these capabilities? To answer these questions, check out a browser testing site and a browser
  extension.
```

Reviewer: the "I have built" seems a bit at odds with other content. I'd suggest putting your ownership on the projects themselves.

  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ## How Fugu is the Web?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How Fugu is the web?
```

[Excalidraw](https://excalidraw.com/). Where previously a platform-specific app was required, in
some cases now a web application can fill in. An example of such is [Wooting](https://wooting.io/)'s
[Wootility](https://wootility.io/) app for programming gaming keyboards with the
[WebHID API](/articles/hid/).

Similarly, running [How Fugu is my browser?](https://howfuguismybrowser.dev/) on each new version of

> your browser of choice (or just any other browser or embedded WebView) is very satisfying, since

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your browser of choice (or just any other browser or embedded WebView) is very satisfying. With
```
